SWEET TART CRUST

INGREDIENTS
-----------

1 1/4 cup all-purpose flour (170 g)
1/2 cup confectioner’s sugar (60 g)
1/4 tsp salt (kosher or sea salt; use half if using table salt)
1/2 cup unsalted butter (1 stick, 113 g) (cold)
1 large egg (55 g) (cold)
1/2 tsp pure vanilla extract

METHOD
------

0. Gather and chill all the ingredients. 
1. Cut the butter into small cubes. Set out to get room temp.
3. Crack the egg into a small bowl. Beat with vanilla.
4. In a large bowl, stir together the flour, sugar, and salt. 5. Add the butter to the flour mixture. Using a pastry cutter, cut the butter into flour mixture until the texture resembles coarse cornmeal, with butter pieces no larger than small peas. 6. Add the egg mixture and blend with a fork just until the dough pulls together. 
CHILL OUT THE DOUGH

7. Transfer the dough clumps to a lightly floured surface and form into a ball. Sprinkle with flour. 8. Flatten the ball with your hands to form a thick disk. 
9. Wrap with plastic wrap and refrigerate for at least 1 hour (or 30 mins in the freezer). 
10. The dough must be completely chilled before being used. 
If you don’t use the dough right away, you can store in the refrigerator for up to 3 days, or freeze it for up to 2 months (then thaw overnight in the refrigerator). 
ROLL OUT THE DOUGH

1. Take the dough out from the refrigerator and let it sit on the counter for a few minutes to soften slightly for easy rolling. Meanwhile lightly butter a 9-inch (23 cm) fluted tart pan with a removable bottom.  
	2.	Lightly flour your working surface and place the dough on top. Using a rolling pin, roll out the dough into an 11-inch circle, with 1/8-inch (3 mm) thick. If the dough is too soft, put back into the refrigerator. 
	3.	Flour the rolling pin and roll the dough loosely around it, then unroll it into the tart pan. 
	4.	Evenly pat the dough onto the bottom and sides of the greased tart pan. Seal any cracks in the dough. 
	5.	Trim off excess dough with a sharp knife, or with the rolling pin by rolling over the tart pan. A good tip I learned from a Japanese cookbook (optional): Using your index finger, gently press the dough onto the side so the dough will peak out 2 mm from the pan. The dough tends to shrink while baking, so this helps to keep the height of the crust.  
	6.	With a fork, gently prick the dough several times. Cover the tart pan with plastic wrap and place in the freezer until firm, about 30 minutes. Freezing the dough before baking prevents it from shrinking. 
BLIND BAKE THE CRUST
	1.	To prevent the crust from becoming soggy, I always like to blind bake the crust. Preheat the oven to 375F (190C) and place the rack in the center. 
	2.	When the oven is ready, tightly line the chilled crust with 2 layers of parchment paper, covering the edges to prevent them from burning. Fill the crust with pie weights (or dried beans, uncooked rice, pennies, etc). Make sure they are evenly distributed over the entire surface. 
	3.	Bake the crust for 20 minutes, until the foil no longer sticks to the dough. Transfer the crust to a wire rack and remove the pie weights and parchment paper. 
	4.	To partially bake the crust, continue to bake the crust for 5 minutes longer. Proceed with your tart recipe: add the filling and finish baking. According to your recipe, the crust should be used while warm or after it’s been left to cool on a wire rack. 
	5.	To fully bake the crust, bake for 10 minutes longer or until it is dry and the bottom turns lightly golden. Remove the crust from the oven and place on a wire rack to cool.  
STORAGE
	1.	The baked crust can be stored at room temperature for 3 days or frozen for 2 months.  



FRANGIPANE
----------

INGREDIENTS
-----------

2 Large Eggs, room temp
1/2 cup Unsalted Butter, room temp
1 cup Powdered Sugar
1 cup Almond Flour
2 Tbsp All-purpose Flour
1/8 tsp Iodized Table Salt
1 tsp Vanilla Extract
1 tsp Almond Extract
1 Tbsp Rum
1/2 Lemon
3 Tbsp Apricot Jam


METHOD
------
1. In a large bowl, cream the softened Unsalted Butter.
2. Add Powdered Sugar and mix until it resembles a coarse meal.
3. Add Almond Flour, All-purpose Flour and Salt. 
4. Add eggs one at a time incorporated into mixture. 
5. Add Vanilla Extract, Almond Extract and Rum.
6. Whisk until smooth and everything is mixed.
7. Fill tart with frangipane. 
8. Refrigerate for 30 minutes to set.
9. Top with sliced pears. 
10. Bake at 375˚F for 40-45 minutes.




